# M3_wiper-control-system:


This Project is an Wiper control (WCS) system,a wiper control system for an automotive wiper controls the operational speed of a wiper in accordance with rain conditions.It useful in the automotive unit the main purpose of the system is to clean the windscreen sufficiently to provide suitable visibility at all times.
Vehicles are now available with driver-programmable intelligent (automatic) windscreen wipers that detect the presence and amount of rain using a rain sensor. The sensor automatically adjusts the speed of the blades according to the amount of rain detected. Rain-sensing windscreen wipers appeared on various models in the late 20th century, one of the first being Nissan's 200SX/Silvia. As of early 2006, rain-sensing wipers are optional or standard on all Cadillac and most Volkswagen, and are available on many other main-stream manufacturers. B. Why Automatic Wiper? In the present automobiles the number of facilities is much higher. The driver has to concentrate on road while driving, and with increased traffic, things get frustrating. The features in the car like GPRS to trace the route, music system, air condition system etc may drive away the attention of the driver. Thus an effort has been made to reduce the effort put by driver in controlling the speed of the wiper and put more concentration on his driving. Since this system is put into use in many higher end cars and has been successfully working, an effort was made to reduce the cost of the system so that this system can be implemented in common economic cars where a common man can also enjoy the benefits.
